In this lecture, I'll be talking a little bit more about services.
Pods are very dynamic,
they come and go on the Kubernetes cluster. When using a Replication Controller pods are terminated
and created during scaling operations. When using deployments, when updating the image version for instance,
pods are terminated and new pods take the place of older pods.
That's why pods should never be accessed directly, but always through a service. A service is the logical bridge
between the "mortal" pods and other services or end-users.
When using the "kubectl expose" command earlier, you created a new service for your pod,
so that it could be accessed externally.
Creating a new service will create an endpoint for your pods.
You can either use a "ClusterIP", which is a virtual IP only reachable from within the cluster.
This is the default.
Or you can use a "NodePort" and that is a port that is the same on each node that is also reachable externally.
If you want to reach a pod externally this is what you need.
Or you can go for a "LoadBalancer" and this is used for production applications
on the cloud.
A LoadBalancer is created by the cloud provider that will route external traffic to
every node on the node port.
I showed you how this works.
I did it using ELB, Elastic Load Balancer on AWS. The options that I just showed you,
allow you to create virtual IPs or ports.
There is also a possibility to use DNS names. If you use external name in servers definition,
you can provide a DNS name for the service. For instance, for service discovery using DNS.
This only works when the DNS add-on is enabled.
I will discuss this later in a separate lecture and we'll talk about service discovery and we will also talk about this DNS add-on.
This is an example of a service definition,
it could also create the same service using "kubectl expose", it does the same thing.
It has the "apiVersion: v1",
the "kind: Service",
it has name, the name is, "helloworld-service", and in specification we are going to define the ports.
So, the Port we're going to use is 31001
and it's going to be "NodePort".
So, we see at the bottom here, this service is of "type: NodePort".
The target port is the "nodejs-port",
so this name "nodejs-port" I defined in my pod and it is Port 30000.
The protocol is DCP and the selector is "app: helloworld".
So, this will be the service for the pod
that has the label "helloworld"
You don't have to specify this "nodePort".
If you don't specify it, then it will be a random port, if you specify it, then this port will be used
but this service can only be created if this port is still available.
So, you will have to manage port collisions yourself.
Also note that by default services can only run
between ports 30000 and 32767,
But, you could change the behavior by ending the "--service-node-port-range" argument to the "kube-apiserver".
"kube-apiserver" is a process that starts in the init scripts of your master nodes,
you could change this "--service-node-port-range", if you would want another range for ports.
You would then have to make sure that you don't have collisions with ports that are already used on
the note.
Typically, this is already a good setting, what you are going to do is, if let's say, you want to use a default
HTTP port, then you are going to put an AWS load balancer in front of it.
In the next demo I'm going to create this service of "type: NodePort".